---
id: 4
slug: /4
---

# IPA-4 Glossary

Common terminology across IPAs.

> [!NOTE]  
> **State:** Adopt

## Guidance

The following terminology **should** be used consistently throughout IPAs.

### Atlas Admin API (API)

The programmatic interface tools that customers use to integrate with Atlas
([MongoDB Atlas Administration API](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/atlas/reference/api-resources-spec/v2/)).

### API Producers

Any team contributing to the Atlas Admin API, be it designing, developing, or
documenting.

### Client

Clients are programs that perform a specific task by calling an API, such as
CLIs, integrations, or customer code.

### Programmatic Clients (SDKs)

A collection of software development kits (SDKs) that offer
programming-language-specific abstractions, enabling developers to easily
interact with APIs. These clients simplify the process of making API calls by
providing pre-built functions and methods, allowing for more efficient
integration for Atlas Admin API (API)

### Infrastructure as code (IaC)

A category of clients that consumes a markup language or code that represents
resources exposed by an API and executes the appropriate imperative actions to
drive the resource to that desired state. To determine what changes to make and
if a set of updates was successful, a declarative client compares server-side
resource attributes with client-defined values.

[Terraform](https://www.terraform.io/) is an example of such a client.

To learn more, see [IPA-127](0127.md).

### Side Effects

Side effects are those operations that may create or update resources unrelated
to the original request, for example, a create operation that also updates a
parent resource state.

### Governing API body

A dedicated group or entity, known as API Champions, responsible for ensuring adherence to IPAs and best practices.