---
id: 111
slug: /111
---

# IPA-111: Server-Modified Values and Defaults

Server-modified and default values often make it harder to implement
state-driven clients. These clients are often unable to tell when their desired
state matches the current state for these fields, as the rules by which a server
may modify and return values are complex, not public, and not repeatable.

> [!WARNING]  
> **State:** Experimental

## Guidance

### Single Owner Fields

Fields **must** have a single owner, whether that is the client or the server.
Server-owned fields must be documented as such. All other types of fields
**must** be considered to be owned by the client. The server **must** respect
the value (or lack thereof) of all client-owned fields and not modify them.

### Effective Values

There are instances where a service will allocate, generate, or calculate a
value if the client chooses not to specify one.

**For example:** a client creates a cluster without specifying a version. Such a
scenario is opting for the default mongodb version.

An attribute with an effective value **must** be expressed as two fields in the
API:

- A mutable field that **may** be optionally set by the user and **must not** be
  modified by the service
- A read-only field that records the effective value decided on by the service
  - Effective values **must** be named by prefixing effective to the mutable
    field's name

Example

```json
// For managing autoscaling of a cluster
{
  "clusterTier": "M10",
  "effectiveClusterTier": "M30"
}
```

### Boolean Values

- Booleans **should** default to `false`
  - Many serialization systems won’t distinguish `false` values from unset
    values which introduces complications when a boolean defaults to `true`

Example

```go
package example

// Bad
// Given the go struct
type ClusterDescriptionProcessArgs struct {
    JavascriptEnabled bool `json:"javascriptEnabled"`
}
// the following call will default to false and requires user intervention to set
// JavascriptEnabled to true
sdk.UpdateClusterAdvancedConfiguration(new(ClusterDescriptionProcessArgs))
// Users need to always set the true value even if the API defaults to true
sdk.UpdateClusterAdvancedConfiguration(&ClusterDescriptionProcessArgs{JavascriptEnabled: true}))

// Good
type ClusterDescriptionProcessArgs struct {
    JavascriptDisabled bool `json:"javascriptEnabled"`
}
// the following call will default to false and requires user intervention to set
// JavascriptDisabled to true
sdk.UpdateClusterAdvancedConfiguration(new(ClusterDescriptionProcessArgs))
```
