---
id: 127
slug: /127
---

# IPA-127: Declarative-Friendly Interfaces

> [!WARNING]  
> **State:** Experimental

Following declarative-friendly standards is essential for ensuring **reliable**,
**consistent**, **automated**, and **low-latency integrations** with consumers,
such as **Infrastructure as Code (IaC) tools**, which many customers heavily
depend on for their DevOps workflows.\
An interface is considered "declarative-friendly" when resources can be managed
by specifying their **desired final state**, rather than outlining a series of
steps or actions. In this approach, you define **what** the resource should look
like, while the API takes care of the **how**.

With the wide range of popular IaC tools and the constant demand to integrate
diverse resource types across multiple platforms, **uniformity** is critical to
fully automating these integrations.\
The following guidance is to enable interfaces to be **declarative-friendly**
and support **automation**.

## Guidance

- A resource **must** be strongly consistent with the **Resource-Oriented
  Design** ([IPA-101](0101.md))
  - An interface **must** expose the full resource lifecycle using standard HTTP
    verbs. The `GET` operation is critical for IaC tools to read the current
    state and compare it against the desired state.
- A resource **must** have `CREATE`, `DELETE`, `GET`, `LIST` and `UPDATE`
  methods.
  - Response schemas of `CREATE`, `GET` and `UPDATE` **must** be the same
  - Fields defined in `CREATE` and `UPDATE` request schemas **should be** the
    same and **should** be present in response schema
  - For full guidance, see [IPA-103](0103.md), [IPA-104](0104.md),
    [IPA-105](0105.md), [IPA-106](0106.md), [IPA-107](0107.md),
    [IPA-108](0108.md)
- A resource **must not** have custom methods ([IPA-109](0109.md)) as they make
  some automations impossible. Any deviation from this guidance requires a
  strong justification and review by the governing API body.
- A resource field **must** have a single owner ([IPA-111](0111.md))
  - Effective fields **must** be used when a client-owned field can also be
    controlled by the server
- A resource field name **must** be consistent in between the request, response
  body and path parameters ([IPA-112](0112.md))
- A resource **must** have a standardized error format so that consumers can
  fully rely on understandable API responses ([IPA-114](0114.md))
- A resource field **should** have a single type ([IPA-125](0125.md))

### Motivation and Strategic Goals

Our engineering teams and customers rely on IaC tools to manage infrastructure
repeatably and reliably. APIs that don't follow a declarative model require
complex and brittle integration work, creating a poor experience for all
consumers.

The primary strategic benefit of adopting a consistent declarative model is the
ability to **automate the generation of IaC provider resources**. When our APIs
are predictably declarative, we can build automations that create and maintain
tools such as our Terraform and CloudFormation providers. This will dramatically
accelerate the availability of IaC support for our products and reduce manual,
error-prone development.
