---
id: 128
slug: /128
---

# IPA-128: Stability Levels

> [!NOTE]  
> **State:** Experimental

APIs version **must** provide an associated stability level that clearly states
the maturity, expectations of changes and support policies related to the API.
The stability level provides consumers with a clear understanding of what to
expect when integrating or depending on a given API.

## Guidance

- API resources **must** clearly indicate on their documentation their stability
  level.
- API resources **must** use one of these stability levels: **preview**,
  **stable**, **deprecated**, and **sunset**.
- A **preview** API resource undergoes rapid iteration based on users' feedback.
  - The API resource **may** be available only to a selected groups of users.
  - The API resource **may** introduce breaking changes without requiring a new
    version ([IPA-120](0120.md)).
  - API producers **must** establish a feedback mechanism for users to report
    issues and suggest improvements.
  - Consumers **must not** have any expectation of stability.
  - Consumers **should not** use the API in production.
- A **stable** API resource is a production-ready and fully supported API.
  - The API resource **must** be available for all users.
  - The API resource **must not** introduce breaking changes without requiring a
    new version ([IPA-120](0120.md)).
  - The API resource **must** release backwards compatibility
    ([IPA-116](0116.md)) to ensure ongoing reliability.
  - The API resource **must** remain supported until all users migrated to
    alternative versions, or until agreed between API provider and customers.
- A **deprecated** API resource is still supported but **must** transition to
  **sunset** in the future.
  - The API resource **may** no longer receives backwards compatibility changes.
  - The API resource **must** transition to **sunset** within an established
    timeframe.
  - The API resource **must** provide the Deprecation HTTP Response header
    ([RFC 9745](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/rfc9745/)) to signal to
    consumers that the resource is deprecated.
  - The API resource **must** provide the Sunset HTTP Response header
    ([RFC 8594](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc8594)) to signal to
    consumers when it will transition to **sunset**.
  - Consumers **should** migrate to the **stable** version.
- A **sunset** API resource is no longer supported.
  - The API resource **must** return
    [410 GONE](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Reference/Status/410).
  - Consumers **must** migrate to the **stable** version.

## Further Reading

- [IPA-120](0120.md)
- [IPA-116](0116.md)
- [RFC 9745](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/rfc9745/)
- [RFC 8594](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc8594)
